hey what up um this video actually takes
a kind of moderate and sympathetic view
of the question of whether or not
freelee the banana girl is a fraud with
not she's lines who were misleading the
public about her credentials and it asks
in an open-ended way what is the
importance and significance of
credentials whether that's a university
education or in this case certification
as a dietary expert if you're gonna make
your living selling diet books and
giving advice on exercise weight loss
and so on um if you've been to this
channel before you might or may not be
surprised that I state my position on
this is actually moderate it's not
extreme I'm not here to kind of show
that she's a fraud it's not clear to me
that she's been trying to mislead the
public but there is a lot of misleading
and confusing information out there and
I want to say I sympathize in in a very
specific sense I sympathize because I
myself from someone who has confusing
credentials and very often I have to
clarify for people I have to say
explicitly look I am not fluent in the
Chinese language here's my background
here's how much I studied here's you
know like I've lived in China but when I
was living in China I was studying a
completely different group of languages
I was doing language research in China
but not on Chinese then the other hand I
have studied Chinese in a university
context it's complicated I do have some
credentials related to First Nations
languages indigenous languages from
Canada such as Korea in a Jib way
however I don't have a PhD in that
subject it's very easy for people to
miss hear or misunderstand something
you've said or something you've written
even when it's meant to be very clear
but starting with the the interview she
gave to the Daily Mail so the Daily Mail
is a major newspaper with a huge number
of readers etc etc and I can't blame
Frehley for this directly but it seems
that one way or another the journalist
was misled and the journalist says quote
though freely has
and some qualifications in health and
nutrition
she says her current diet came mostly
from undertaking her own independent
research quote it's mainly self study
mainly my own research but I have an
advanced certificate in nutrition which
is completely irrelevant to how I eat
now I also went to college after
graduating high school and study
Dietetics which it's funny error there's
a grammatical error there in that
sentence because my teacher was actually
obese and she was teaching us about
nutrition close quote
um now if you read that very carefully
you can sort of guess what credentials
she has and what credential she doesn't
have she says I went to college but she
does not say that she graduated from
college she does not say she has a
college degree or a university degree
and she seems to me to have always
evaded the question of what exactly her
certificate is in nutrition now I don't
know where reasons we're gonna see right
now how she answers the direct question
here is a question she was given on
YouTube and at this moment 761 people
had given it a thumbs up this person
asks where did you get your nutritional
degree freely good question now here is
her answer who she couldn't just give
you a direct answer how you can see how
many words this is already quote how
many fat out of shape dietitians and
nutritionists are out there question
mark
they are everywhere exclamation point
ninety nine percent have no idea what
they are talking about because their
studies are based on industry fronted
propaganda dollar signs and not the
truth a piece of paper means nothing
period that said I do have advanced
certification in nutrition and attended
Dietetics college only to pull out due
to so much [ __ ]
okay pause and a pause from this
petitioner so she did not answer the
question the question was where did you
get your degree or certificate now in
the English language and in organized
education 21st century a certificate can
mean anything and again I sympathize as
a problem my own life I have a
university degree in political science I
have a bachelor's degree in political
science and honours VA as we say in
English there's Behe in political
science which is not a very impressive
accomplishment by any means I also have
a certificate in teaching English as a
second language if I ever want to work
as an English teacher now what does that
certificate mean it could mean
everything or it could mean nothing if
you're ever having a job interview in
that field they have to ask you well
what did you actually do in the stiff
get what how a certificate like that it
could have taken two months it could
have taken two weeks it could have been
something you ordered over the Internet
hey you didn't legitimately study for at
all there was no testing there was no
scrutiny and no education but it could
also be a really robust program that
really provided with a background so I
have been to job interviews where I have
to specify not just where I got the
certificate but also have to describe
what the education consisted of now for
someone in her position it does seem to
me significant that she dodges this
question here and she seems to have been
very successful in talking to members of
the press in dodging the question or in
presenting the most flattering angle
possible on the fact that she is a
school dropout a certificate is not a BA
it's not a degree it's not a textbook
and again it I disagree with her she
says a piece of paper means nothing a
piece of paper can mean a lot it could
be the certificate she claims she has it
could be an excellent program it could
be that if she named where it was from
and described the program which includes
they say how many months it is and did
you actually study at that institution
or did you just study at home and make
phone calls and send in your homework by
email it was a so-called distance
learning or was it a real program
where you wrote exams and used textbooks
and attended classes you know we don't
know but obviously the fact that she
refuses to talk about it makes us think
it is not so it is not so legitimate all
right so I continue the quotation here
which is really her justification for
her lack of credentials and not really
answering the question about what
credential she has quote who in their
right mind would teach students to serve
a chunk of meat and carton of milk to
cardiovascular patients post-op crazy
[ __ ] exclamation point the very quote
foods close quote that put them in the
hospital to start with exclamation point
even though I have a conventional quote
education close quote in mainstream
nutrition it's useless period my
credentials are how I look and feel
effortlessly and the results I help
others get with no drugs no calorie
restriction no killing close quote now
there were quite a few things here you
could sort of philosophize about yeah
here's the isolated example of well some
people tell somebody with a heart attack
to drink milk okay here's another
example freely some people claim that
you shouldn't eat garlic because garlic
contains a neurotoxin that's freelee the
banana girl you claimed that for years
and I think lately that's a rare example
of something you stopped saying and stop
writing about I I wonder if you've gone
through and deleted all the mentions of
it from your website I found one less
time I googled your claim that garlic
contains a neurotoxin no it doesn't and
you didn't learn that in school and you
didn't learn that from a science
textbook and he also didn't learn the
type of procedural attitudes to check
something like that before you claim it
now some of your pseudo-scientific
claims freely are cited to sources but
you never learned how to tell the
difference between a good source and a
bad source so just now I was looking at
your web
so freely and your current claims on
garlic where you no longer just say oh
it contains a neurotoxin therefore don't
eat it what a great scientific discovery
but instead you are citing a website
which is both non scientific and non
rational which is a raw food enthusiasts
website that makes a completely
irrational poetic argument that people
should not eat garlic because garlic is
not a food and the line of reasoning
here is actually that a true food is
something you can eat as a mono meal the
whole line of reasoning there is just
farcical not every argument needs to be
based on science if we're gonna have a
debate about the morality of the Vietnam
War
science it may not play a very important
role in that if we're gonna have a
debate about the morality of them
veganism of vivisection of ecology of
polluting rivers science science could
play a very important role could play a
major role if that's your view of the
world or it could be a very minor role
or it might not be scientific at all
however there are still questions of
rationality of what not you're saying
something intelligent reasonable and
useful even if the criterion for you're
saying it's not scientific and freely I
have to say I disagree with you I don't
think a piece of paper means nothing I
think you are crucially lacking the
skills even when you cite sources when
you cite articles to back up your
arguments it's my problem is not that
you don't cite peer-reviewed scientific
research that's useful for some things
and not others but even given that I'm
open-minded about there being more than
one type of information relevant to
these things I see you citing
information that is to use a word that's
already appeared here [ __ ] and I
don't think you yourself freely are
aware of the difference between a
reliable and an unreliable source when
you make these arguments I think you're
someone who sincerely believed for many
years that garlic contains neurotoxins
and you had apparently no way to verify
that or check it or to counter what are
basically just stupid rumors on the
Internet
within the raw food vegan community and
so on there's a broader philosophical
question here of what is the value of a
university education but actually
freelee the banana girl you are someone
who in many ways gives it a chilling
reminder of just how important it is to
have a solid foundation educationally
speaking in the basics like how to write
a footnote how to check a footnote how
to see if a source is reliable and so on
and freely mentions here the isolated
problem of studies based on industry
funded propaganda yes that is one
problem yes when the dairy industry pays
for something that makes the dairy
industry look good that is a problem I
can give you another example of a
problem people who don't know what
they're talking about spreading the
completely unscientific notion that
garlic contains a neurotoxin disgust
okay it wasn't industry propaganda that
is the origin of that the idea that
human being should not eat garlic
because garlic cannot be consumed as a
mono meal I know how about parsley you
ever sat down ain't nothing but parsley
for a monomial parsley is very good for
your health but no it's not a monomial
there are a lot of vegetables where if
you eat too much of them they can cause
you problems either of digestion or of
basically overdosing on very healthy
vitamins and so on
you know Brazil nuts you can eat too
many Brazil nuts and get seriously ill
doesn't mean Brazil nuts are evil just
ridiculous fundamentally stupid and
freely you you built your career on it
so no I I think freely I think a piece
of paper doesn't mean nothing I think
you were asked directly where you got
your piece of paper and you have lied or
at least dodged the question you failed
to do what I already described myself
doing people often misunderstand what my
credentials are whether it's because
they think I'm fluent in in Chinese or
they think I'm fluent in Cree or they
make up something in their own head oh
I've studied so many languages of a poly
Cambodian Lau and I have to sit there
and say look this is my education this
is the type of research I've done this
is how much I know these different
languages
it's not easy to explain but yeah it's
important to be honest and transparent
you guys like to use the word
transparent and forthcoming and set the
record straight
even when journalists get it wrong I I
had an interview with a journalist from
Lomond a very famous newspaper in France
and the guy quoted me incited me and he
I remember that guy who guarded me as if
I were famous he kind of regarded me
with stars in his eyes I found a bit
hilarious because my life is both rather
humble and rather boring but yeah it was
easy for different newspapers several
times they've cited me as an expert in
Cambodia or an expert in whatever it's
convenient for them to say I'm an expert
in for that one article I've been cited
I've had there was a newspaper in
Scandinavia I forget where Sweden or
Norway it was expert there that called
me an anthropologist I have never
described myself as an anthropologist
that's what that newspaper journalist
said about me and for a little while I
had to tell people no actually I'm not
an anthropologist but some people think
that I am it happens and freely you are
not being transparent or anything else
here now there's something else we can
philosophize a boat at some depth her
claim that my credentials are my body to
quote her directly quote my credentials
or how I look and feel close quote now
you know I think there's really a big
lesson here for vegans you can google
any given supermodel a lot of them have
diets a lot of them are pushing diet
books you're never gonna be the best
looking person in the world good-looking
people are never gonna be hard to find
I'm sorry but this just opens the door
to a madhouse 99% of good-looking people
are not vegan 99.9 percent the world is
crowded with models and actresses and
singers who eat meat or who drink milk
or whatever and a lot of them when they
get asked why are you so beautiful
talk about their diets and that's been
going on since print media was first
invented
you can find interviews from the 1920s
with you know famous actors and singers
and so on talking about you know their
crazy diet ideas and it has just never
never been acceptable to say this guy
knows what he's talking about because
he's handsome or this woman knows what
she's talking about because she's
beautiful
and finally freely if your credentials
are your body how you look and feel
effortlessly well then what about the
fact that your body is fake because you
paid a surgeon to cut open your breasts
and put saline and plastic inside and I
do not count having face fake breasts as
how you look and feel effortless I don't
think that's a legit credential and I
think that could be put to anyone who
made similar claims most of the media I
am exposed to is is related to hip hop
related to rap music in that subculture
and there were a lot of good-looking
women in that industry some of whom you
know also have a diet book or also of an
exercise plan and they always have to be
clear about what plastic surgery they've
had because if they're giving advice but
the reality is they've had liposuction
or fake breasts or augmentation to their
bum or other parts of their body there's
a lot of that going on and no I I don't
think it's legit you know you guys talk
about this stuff yourselves you don't
think it's legit for somebody using
steroids to give diet advice and so on
if your body that you claim as your
credential because you have no real
credentials if your body is what you
claim gives you credence gives you
authority then it really is a pretty
profound problem that your body is fake
and in fact your illusion of being
simultaneously very skinny and very
curvy you're the illusion of femininity
you're projecting in fact that's a
product of that evil beauty industry
that you rant again it's it's that
conspiracy of scientists who you know
design and carried out breast
augmentation surgery you know come on
you won't eat a mango that was raised
with pesticides but you'll pay for a
surgeon to put plastic inside a cavity
in your chest so you can look curvier
than you are when the reality is if you
didn't have that breast augmentation you
would look scrawny and you probably
would not have those photographs
published in that newspaper and wouldn't
have all this attention and really her
her whole life would be different
without that surgery um and I'm not
hating on her my point is not really to
point the finger here but I've got to
say when I was putting together one of
my former videos I had a digression on
the fact that freelee and durianrider do
not have the credentials
whereas several other people in the game
do there are medical doctors who talk
about vegan diet health and exercise I
was just asking why would you trust them
why would you choose to trust these
people instead of people who have
credentials and at that time when I fact
checked it I found all this conflicting
and unclear information freely about how
you you know have a certificate of some
kind how you studied at university to
some extent the reality is you're a
dropout and you're being dishonest about
exactly what your certificate is where
it comes from and what you learned and
anyone who clicks through to the
footnote of your crazy claims such as
you know garlic contains a neurotoxin
nobody should he Girt there is real
reason to regard what you say with
scrutiny and the way your body looks or
if people find you attractive that is
not enough of a credential to do what
you've been doing
soon my aunt an aunt